This subdirectory contains the progress made towards semantic segmentation of the covercrop dataset thrugh a Fully convolutional network approach. 


## Update:
the colab noebook has been revised with code to build binary and multiclass masks matrices from the annotated CoverCrop dataset images. 


### The FCN Segmentation Progress for Fall 2019:
- Decision made to start with a small sample size of 10 images for manual annotation, preprocessing and inital training of a fcn model 
- All images used are stored in the Image Data Directory repo  
- Manual annotations were made with an online annotation tool
- Preprocessing included minor augmentation/alteration to the images and producing segmentation masks 
- colab notebooks on performing and testing the creation of segmentation masks are stored in the the Image Preprocessing directory 
- Preprocessing image data for keras is completed 
- Initial training of a FCN model utilized fundamental code from a semantic segmentation tutorial, ([Github Repo here](https://github.com/seth814/Semantic-Shapes))
- the first runthrough with the small image sample size was attempted. 




## Current Challenges and future steps 
the current problem is with intiating training of the fcn model. The error displayed is: 'ValueError: Error when checking input: expected input_1 to have shape (512, 512, 3) but got array with shape (256, 256, 3)'
origin of error is within the DataGenerator module called upon in the train.py file and written in the data_generator.py file. 
the supposed cause is that because the data is generated by the sequence method in keras to complete multiprocessing, and when the input image arrays are size (512,512) it is imcompatible with the default setting within keras. this default setting in the keras data generator can be changed if the  ImageDataGenerator class is used instead and .flow(target_size=....) is used. This can be the possible slution and is in the process of being tested. 
